You already learned a lot about routing.
We're nearing the end but did you ever wonder what happens if we enter something here which we don't
cover, like let's say just slash something.
We get an error because clearly, we don't have a route with slash something here.
So that is something we probably want to improve,
we want to do some 404 error handling,
we maybe want to redirect the user to a specific page
whenever he tries to visit a page we don't have.
These are the topics I'll focus on next,
setting up a router which handles all routes
we don't have set up and redirecting requests, not necessarily to topics you use together but also not
that uncommon.
So let's start with redirecting.
Let's say we add a new component to our application and I will use the CLI for this with the gc for
generate component command and I'll name it
page-not-found, the page not found component which was added here in our app folder, in this new page
not found folder. I'll get rid of the spec file
and here, I will simply say in the template, this page was not found, something like this.
Now I want to render this page in let's say the case that we visit a certain route,
I'll add it
here at the bottom where the path is for now something and in this something case here,
I want to load my page not found component.
Of course, make sure that you added it to declarations and so on
because we're still using it in our app of course.
So with this in place, if we now save this, go back to our application and visit slash something, we of
course see this page was not found.
Now let's change something to not found and let's make sure that once we add another new route which
then is something let's say, we don't also have to add component here but we redirect to another route,
to the not found route maybe. For this,
we get another property we can add to any route config here,
so of course to any of the other routes. If you don't want to specify a component to load, you can say
redirectTo.
Now this is an alternative to component, component loads the specific component, redirectTo redirects to
another path.
So here, you can specify any path and the path maybe now is /not-found.
So now if you do this, you'll see that it automatically redirected,
so let me show you this again by typing slash something,
watch the URL, it redirects to /not-found
and all the other routes of course still work.
So this is how we can use redirection.
Now of course, it's not very convenient to define slash something here because you probably can't define
all possible wrong URLs the user can enter.
So a more convenient way to catch all routes which are not covered by your app is to use the double
asterisk route here, this is the wildcard route which means catch all paths
you don't know and the order is super important here.
Make sure that this very generic route is the last one in your array of routes because your routes get
parsed from top to bottom here,
so if this was actually at the beginning, you would always get redirected
as I can quickly show you by saving this like this, now no matter where you click, you always are redirected
to not found.
So make sure this is the last route here in your set up
and with this, now all the other routes work but if you enter anything invalid here, you always get
redirected to not found because now you're using this wildcard route, catching all routes which are
unknown to Angular at this point of time once it reaches this line here and which then redirects to the
not found route which displays the page not found page or component.
This is how you can redirect and make sure you catch routes
you're not covering right now.